Thank you, Mr. President. On Iran, you
called it an excursion. You said it
would be over soon. Are you thinking
this week it will be over? You're
talking about days?
>> I think so.
>> Okay, and and with respect
>> Very soon.
President Trump there raising hopes the
Iran war may be nearing an end. You're
watching the China show. I'm Yvonne Man
with David Ingles.
>> We are counting down to the open of
markets in greater China. Our top
stories today stocks across the Asia
Pacific are rebounding from Monday's
massive sell-off. You have oil falling
as concerns ease over the war's
duration. Treasuries are snapping a
five-day decline.
>> President Trump promising to suspend
oil-related sanctions and provide naval
escorts to tankers in the Strait of
Hormuz as he confronts mounting economic
pressure over the war.
Also ahead full year profit surges for
Chinese battery giant CATL boosting
overseas sales as a price war rages at
home. And a closer look at how factory
workers are getting left behind even as
China's export machine continues to hum.
Well, we're breathing a little bit
better today after
what was a pretty uh turbulent day of of
some of the wildest swings we really
have seen when it comes to crude markets
maybe since the days of COVID in some
way. So, you know, it is somebody's
calming soothing words from President
Trump. That's really all it took to
really send oil back below $90 now.
Yeah, and you got to wonder whether the
actual move in oil prices, the the
magnitude and the extent to which they
reached about close to 120 actually then
precipitated some of the walking back
there as far as the the the rhetoric
coming through out the US.
Uh but it's interesting given the
declines we are seeing in oil prices and
yes, by the way, it's a massive sigh of
relief across these markets. It's
interesting to that US futures are
somewhat reversing some of the gains
going into the close on Monday.
>> I think there's still a lot of questions
lingering, right? What what is Iran's
response going to be to all this as
well? And obviously, it it's going to
take a while still for vessels to go
through the Strait of Hormuz, right? And
you talk about you know, China raising
fuel prices and one thing. You talk
about the Saudis even talking about
cutting output. Um certainly, there's
still going to be lingering questions of
how quickly those sort of vessels can go
through that waterway. Yeah, let's have
a look at where we are as far as markets
go. I think it's
relatively accurate to say that markets
currently are pricing out tail risks.
We're not pricing out completely
the end of the conflict. I think that's
also quite telling. We're down about 9%
right now on Brent. Yes, we are back to
90 in case you need to look at this
twice. Uh let's have a look at where we
are as far as the dollar is concerned.
So you we did start off on weaker
footing. We had that spike around 90
minutes back in the Bloomberg Dollar
Index. We have given up some of those
gains to the current levels of 120. Uh
we'll have a conversation on gold later
on as well, why it has not acted as a
haven during this
uh this period of conflict here. Uh as
far as the bond markets go, uh so Asia
is actually tracking what we had on Wall
Street. Although as we were pointing out
as well, uh some of the gains uh on the
Wall Street session, whether that's in
the bond markets or in the the Treasury
market is reversing somewhat. There we
go. Asia extending the gains overnight.
And when you look at what's happening uh
going into the Chinese market today, at
least we have a window of opportunity
need to talk about corporate news,
things like CATL, things like earnings.
Uh we are on uh trade data is on tap, so
we'll have we'll get we'll we'll we'll
be with that shortly as well. Uh and
what that perhaps tells us about the
trade mix in terms of exports and
imports moving forward. The 10-year
yield and the steepening of the curve,
is that an inflation story playing out?
And let's just wrap things up with a
reminder that things might not be fully
out in the clear. There we go. US
futures are down somewhat a quarter of
1%. VIX futures are point pushing a
little bit higher Uh at this time of the
session.
>> Yeah, so you know, it seems like you
know, President Trump is really kind of
maybe we're concerned that these you
know, oil prices are hitting triple
digits here and certainly that might
have been the trigger as to why we're
seeing a bit of
calming words from him on why he thinks
the war against Iran will end soon and
that he plans to really wave oil related
sanctions in a bid to cut fuel prices.
Take a listen.
On Iran, you called it an excursion. You
said it would be over soon. Are you
thinking this week it will be over or
are you talking about days?
>> I think so.
>> Okay, and and with respect
>> Very soon. Look,
everything they have is gone including
their leadership.
In fact, there two levels of leadership
and even actually as it turns out more
than that, but two levels of leadership
are gone.
We're also waving certain oil related
sanctions to reduce prices. So we have
sanctions on some countries. We're going
to take those sanctions off till this
straightens out. Then who knows, maybe
we won't have to put them on. There'll
be so much peace.
But when the time comes, the US Navy and
its partners will escort tankers through
the straight if needed.
Okay, let's uh bring in our team. Uh
Laura Davison, our politics editor and
on the energy space, Nicholas Lua in
Singapore for us. Laura, I'll start with
you. Um
very soon.
Can we quantify that in terms of hours,
days, and weeks?
>> We absolutely cannot. Uh Trump just said
very soon and he intentionally did not
specify um you know, any timeframe. He
was asked, you know, this week. He said
not this week. Uh you know, Trump is
sort of famous for saying that he's
going to have something done in 2 weeks
and that 2 weeks period never comes. So
I would caution everyone to take this
with a little bit of uh a grain of uh a
caution, a grain of salt here that this
is uh you know, not a developed policy
plan coming from the president. Um you
know, as Yvone just mentioned, perhaps a
signal to the markets uh to try to calm
them down. But what we're really seeing
from the White House, I think it's
important to differentiate the policy
proposals dealing with the war versus
the policy proposals dealing with the
symptoms of the war, namely high oil
prices. That's where we've seen a lot of
the effort, you know, both in terms of
of of actual things we've heard come
from the White House in terms of the
easing of sanctions, the uh naval
escorts for ships in the Strait of
Hormuz. Uh we have not heard anything
from the White House about how this war
will actually end. Uh you know, we've
heard Trump, you know, suggest a lot of
different things, uh but still doesn't
not a lot of clarity on what he's
looking for, whether that's regime
regime change, whether that is uh more
neutering of the of the nuclear
capabilities, the weapons capabilities,
the military capabilities of Iran. We
still don't know.
Okay. And do we know how Iran
you know, will respond in any way? You
know, have we heard from them on what
their perspective is on all this now?
You know, we don't have a great sense of
exactly what their next steps are, but
they have sort of this has been a real
tit-for-tat scenario of Trump said,
"We're going to hit harder." And Iran
says, "Great, we will hit you and your
allies in the region back harder." They
have shown no signs of slowing down.
There is a real question as we head, you
know, into, you know, week two of this
war is, you know, what are the
capabilities both of Iran? You know,
Trump has said that their you know,
capabilities have been limited to 10% of
what it was earlier. Not exactly clear
that that number is is quite accurate.
They've been able to do a lot of damage
with these relatively inexpensive
drones. You know, that we've heard from
allies in the region that they're
running out of missile interceptors.
There was a meeting with defense CEOs
last week to to to address this. There's
there's a lot of questions about what
both sides can do and how long they can
sustain this. Okay.
Nicholas, can I bring you in on the oil
angle? And it was, you know, this time
yesterday when we were at about 112, we
went to as close as 120.
Uh we're back to 90, which is I think
levels, I forget now,
uh levels of last Friday. Uh
what are the steps that have been taken
to ease this this this uh
this melt up in oil prices? What have we
heard so far?
Uh Laura's already captured all this, I
think, David, in that aside from what
Trump has said, like that the war is
going to end soon, although not this
week, we've not actually had more
substantial matter beyond that because
other than that the news that's been
coming out has been super bullish,
right? I think what's very clear is that
yesterday after the weekend of where we
saw a lot of bullish news, you know,
Kuwait cutting
production, UAE cutting production, and
then yesterday Saudi cutting production.
We've had a slate of bullish news that
pushed oil up to, like you say, the 120s
range, right? And again, like let let's
let's be clear, a $30 swing now, that's
been unprecedented. We've not seen that
since the pandemic. And so I think the
markets were looking for something that
was bearish. So the one little bearish
thing that Trump said, vague though it
may be,
sent the whole world crashing down.
Do you see any sort of relief when it
comes to oil supplies and shipping
lanes? Is that forthcoming now?
I would say in terms of concrete action,
that's still very limited. Now, Hormuz
is slightly, and I say very slightly,
more porous than it was like over the
weekend. We've seen at least one Greek
ship tanker like take the risk of
switching its navigation signals off and
like dash through with Saudi crude.
We've also seen Iranian ships continue
to make the pass, but maybe that's not
exactly surprising, right? So there
But that's it. For the rest of us, for
everyone else who's worried about like
their tankers, who's worried about
potential strikes on the tankers as they
pass through Hormuz, the straits are
still essentially stuck, right? So in
terms of how we've actually changed, how
physical flows have actually changed,
they changed very little. All we've seen
is this headline moving thing that's
pulled it all down.
And Nicholas, the
I want to use a maybe an FX overlay here
just in terms of say intervention risk
when you look at the oil price, right?
Uh
at 120, well, my question is do you
think we've seen this likely we've seen
the ceiling at 120 because at about that
level you get the White House somewhat
pushing back a little bit. You get G7
coming out and saying they are prepared
to do something more significant
to alleviate the oil price. So in other
words, while we don't still yet know how
this ends, have we at least seen the
peak short term?
So I would say that the peak for this
week,
maybe this is where we've gone as high,
but I would say in terms of where
developments will go in the future, I'll
bring you back again to what Laura said,
right? In terms of concrete
developments, how the war's progressing,
what Trump's aims are, that's all very
unclear. And so long as these big macro
decisions don't get sorted, it looks
like we're going to be in for a
protracted conflict, right? So I think
we're going to be here for a very long
time. And let me say again, like in
terms of actually how oil markets have
been impacted, most of the crude coming
out of the Gulf isn't flowing. Most of
the oil products, the gasoline, the jet
fuel, the diesel that people need to
keep the global economy running, to keep
the middle classes going on their
holidays, that's not coming. And again,
the Gulf is a major supplier. And so
without that, like eventually all of
this is going to have knock-on effects
across the global economy, and that will
be reflected in the oil prices. So is
120 the limit? I don't think so. I think
we're meant for more.
All right, Nicholas, that means we got
to brace for more. We'll have more from
of course Nick coming up. But our
reporter also uh thanks to Laura
Davison, our politics editor, on the
latest when it comes to of course the
headlines that we've been seeing from
President Trump here. And coming up
we'll be digesting the market reactions
to Trump's latest comments with Adrian
Zurcher of UBS. Plus we'll look into the
impact of the Iran war on China with
Citic Securities and the outlook for
gold with StanChart's Suki Cooper. And
we are counting down to the open of
trade in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and Hong
Kong. This is the China Show.
>> All right,
China is set to join this relief rally
we're seeing across the region. We are
looking at half of 1% in futures,
slightly lower on the 10-year yield.
Although of course the inflation print
this time yesterday was really what led
to the steepening in the CGB curve.
Dollar China on your screens in about a
minute or so we'll get the fix today
coming through. We'll get the two year
once we have more information from the
PBOC. Joining us here in set Adrian
Zurcher, co-head of global asset
allocation, co-head of global investment
management APAC at UBS. Chief investment
office. Very nice to have you. What a
time.
What's the mood like with your clients
from late last week into I guess a few
minutes ago if you were taking calls?
Well, actually so far I would say
clients are relatively calm. Of course
they want to know what's going on. They
want to have news flow. They want to
understand how we see the world.
But we actually haven't seen too much
action overall in terms of particular no
panicking, no panic selling which I
think is what we had tried to advise.
Yes, there's a lot of uncertainties.
There are a lot of known unknowns that
might happen or not happen. And I think
it's really important to have a plan.
Advise clients. See where they may be
overexposed, where they have to reduce a
bit. But there are also opportunities
out of that.
The The Should we Can we at least say
that we've seen the worst when it comes
to energy prices at least at this point
given that we have seen a lot of options
or at least people weighing and
officials weighing options to really
calm oil prices moving forward. We just
don't know. I mean the fact is we are
not experts when it comes to politics in
in Iran for example. We are not even
probably the most best suited people to
speak about US politics. What we know is
if the conflict
basically exists for a longer period,
and it will impact energy prices. Energy
prices will feed through inflation, will
feed through
to growth, and therefore the longer it
is actually lasts, the more impact it
will have and the more negative effect
it will have. The shorter we actually
get out of that, the quicker market can
return back to normal, snap even back to
the levels we may we have seen before.
So, what are the person to watch though
for now? For whether things to
stabilize, is it is it still the oil
price? Is it dollar? I mean, what is it
that you're looking at? Well,
absolutely. I mean, the macro economy
impact itself from the region is very
very small. The transmission is through
higher energy prices. We know that every
$10
increase will probably take off 0.2% of
global GDP growth.
It has an impact on US consumer,
probably also around 20 basis points, 30
basis points every every $10. It has an
effect on gasoline prices, and it's a
global price setting, even if
the US is maybe self-sustained in terms
of energy. It's a It's a price taker
market. It's global pricing that is
setting up, and therefore will have an
impact on on consumption. I mean, if
there was a silver lining to what's
going on, I think I have to underscore
if, it could have been a reminder that
there many crowded trades out there.
What What's your advice when you look at
these crowded trades in terms of whether
that's Korea, whether that was gold,
whether that's AI, and what the
short-term direction is as far as those
popular trades were concerned. Well,
even before this crisis we actually
started to say, "Look, we expect
broadening of equity market." We
actually downgraded US technology, we
downgraded consumer or telecommunication
service in the US, which was very
related to the AI trade. So, we actually
said you have to have a more diversified
approach going into 2026.
Gold is quite interesting. They covered
the trade hasn't exactly reacted the way
probably a lot of people would think
it should react
and that's also an indication that
there's a lot of money in it. So a lot
of uncertainties through higher
inflation, lower
basically stronger US dollar price. So
really have a real look at the
portfolio. Think what has worked very
well, trim back. Maybe there's some
opportunities coming up. What we did
over the last couple of I would say two
weeks was we started to actually build
in a bit more hedges for a stronger US
dollar despite fundamentally we think
the dollar should be weaker. But then we
also added into for example higher
yielding EM currencies which are most
likely or most commodity exporters which
can basically benefit out of that as
well. So that's the area actually we
tried to sort of navigate this this
crisis at the moment. Okay, so you said
you downgraded a bit of the US tech side
of things. Korea was certainly one which
people really tilted towards because of
the the chip the memory side of things
here, right? But if you're talking about
still higher energy costs
to even some of these sort of AI
players. I'm just wondering is is Korea
still quite vulnerable to to many shocks
out there?
Right now? Well, I think Korea is
vulnerable from two perspectives, right?
A lot of money went in and what we have
seen through the crisis people looking
also for cash and what we have seen was
basically all the momentums trade
basically reversed. We actually do think
fundamentally Korea looks very very
interesting. It's not just about the AI
spending and it's about the technology
part. It's also about defense. So Korea
actually really fits well into both of
these topics. So there's fundamental
value but short-term
given what happened given how far and
how quickly the market actually went up
and how crowded some of these positions
was.
Um we actually would say you have to
navigate that and and see how much
position really want to own in Korea. Uh
what about fixed income? And you know,
who knows whether this will last long
enough to eventually affect inflation,
but bonds have sort of acted up because
of that that view. Has anything changed
in your view in terms of fixed income?
Well, I think fixed income is actually
quite interesting topic because on one
hand, yes, inflation will go up. We we
know that for if inflation stays above
or in for it stays above 90 US dollar
for the next 6 months, US inflation will
go up around 60 basis points. If it
stays above 120 for the next 6 months,
it will go up 150 basis points.
>> Okay. I don't think we want to be in
that scenario, but yeah, okay. It's very
inflationary. At the same time, higher
energy prices will affect growth. So,
particularly US
Central Bank, which has this dual
mandate, actually can look through this
inflation push and given the labor
market and the latest data that we have
seen, might even actually react with
interest rate cuts eventually. It's a
bit more complicated in Europe because
it's a single mandate, it's inflation.
So, they are a bit more limited in what
they actually can do, but I would say
eventually,
if this continues, if there's growth
concerns, we actually will see lower
rates and not higher rates. The initial
reaction, of course, is curve flattening
what we have seen, but that creates
opportunities, definitely. Does the
dollar stay supported then in the near
term?
Most likely. So, what we actually did,
I actually think there's good
opportunities in the FX market. I think
one of the smartest trade we did and the
team actually put on was we are long
Brazilian real, short the euro.
Brazil,
commodity exporter, it's a cyclical
currency, it's a sensitive currency,
it's a risk-on currency. The euro
affected by higher energy prices. So, if
we see more stress through higher energy
prices, the Brazilian real should
actually hold up relatively well versus
the euro.
Um if we see sort of a return back as
today, risk on, the Brazilian real will
rally because it's a risk on currency.
And at the same time, you're actually
clipping in 10% carry because the
interest rate differential. So, these
are the trades we're actually looking in
this current environment, which actually
can do well in different scenarios and
sort of in a base case should deliver a
decent returns. Adrian, great to have
you. Adrian Zurcher there, co-head of
global asset allocation and co-head of
global investment management for APAC at
UBS Chief Investment Office. Uh we are
taking a look at what it comes to that
yuan fix here this morning. So, it is uh
a strong one here. So, strengthening
that fix by the most since January of
2025.
We're back below 690 levels for the
currency here this morning. Pre-market
for the Hang Seng up 1.3%. Plenty more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
Your agenda for today, we're watching of
course whether we see China catch up to
what we're seeing the region with this
recovery given those war words from
President Trump here on the Iran war
ending soon. We do have some trade
numbers on tap here today. Uh and energy
stocks certainly is going to be a key
focus here given those earnings coming
through from CATL. Full year profits
surged by 42%, which was a beat on the
street for 2025. So, that certainly has
been already moving in the pre-market. H
share stack, we've reached that sort of
technical death cross as well. So, that
means to keep in mind on the technicals.
Uh Huawei also dropping to a 7-month
low. Southbound flows were also quite
interesting, right? Record buying that
we saw, right? Where mainland investors
bought the most Hong Kong stocks ever on
Monday after they sold out the most ever
last Thursday. So, a quite a bit of a
reversal there. Yeah, when if you think
about it, the chart's coming up. Friday
was the quiet day.
Could have been just not do anything and
you'd end up with about the same. But
yes, massive moves across the the South
Pole, which I guess is indicative really
of what what level was the was the dip
bought?
>> Mhm. And I think really given the
collapse in equity markets yesterday was
a good indication of course of this
money coming in. I guess it helps that
there is a window to talk about
earnings, things like CATL for example,
so we'll get to that in a moment here.
Hang Seng Tech up 2%, that's where some
if not the bulk of these flows get into
some of those big names across the stock
connect scheme. Dollar China on your
screen, CGB market, CGB curve in fact
coming up to 1.81%
on the 10-year yield steepener
yesterday. I'm not sure what the case is
today. Okay, so we're down just about
across the board, nothing clear on the
curve so far. But yes, yesterday was
inflation and as you want to point out
today, it's going to be about trade
numbers and what that comes through as
well
at some point this morning. Yep, so
we're taking a look at what it comes to,
of course, the earning side of things.
We have CATL, a Neo's also on top Wharf
we've been talking about as well. So,
CATL though, you are seeing both the A
and H shares they're are jumping after
of course the full year sales there. You
know, they've been really able to
weather this brutal price war
domestically in China because they've
been boosting overseas sales. They've
also been leveraging their dominance in
energy storage. So, certainly that is
one bright spot there today and maybe
will help lead HS Tech further. Oil,
this is how some of the China oil
players are playing out here today just
given the collapse we've seen in oil
prices. Yes, they are catching down. The
open is next.
>> Right. Welcome back. You're watching the
China show relief rally across the
board. We have trade numbers on tap.
Today,
we have CATL coming out with some
earnings. Initial pricing suggests a
rally there.
And yeah, it's looking like we're
getting at this relief rally across the
region. Whether or not this last until
tomorrow, it really depends on the news
flow, but at least
there's a window of opportunity here to
be bought as far as the dip was
concerned. Yeah, as you mentioned that
Laura Davison our politics editor
mentioned it quite interestingly, right?
There there's what the US administration
is doing about the war itself and what
they're doing with the symptoms of the
war, which is the oil price.
>> the latter. And it seems like it's more
the latter really when you start to see
and we were talking about just
yesterday, a day ago, 24 hours about we
were getting closer to 120 when it comes
to oil prices. That seemed to have
triggered a bit of that sort of taco
trade once again with President Trump.
And now they're saying that this Iran
war could end soon. But in terms of, you
know, relief for oil supplies and
vessels through the Strait of Hormuz,
that is still a lingering question of
how soon business can return and to
normal. So certainly that is still some
of the lingering concerns across these
markets. But I guess that's all it took,
right? Was these reassuring lines from
President Trump to at least send a
relief rally across the region once
again. So you did see US markets
actually bounce back and this is what
we're seeing across onshore markets as
well. 8/10 of 1% higher here in your CSI
300. Relatively speaking, China has
been, you know, doing a bit better than
the rest of the region. So maybe some of
these the rebound and the bounce back is
not as big as what we're seeing in
Korea, what we're seeing in Taiwan and
Japan here this morning as well.
Watching Shanghai crude, there you go.
Following that plunge lower when it
comes to now that we see Brent hovering
around 90. WTI is sub 90 here right now.
So Shanghai crude is down some close to
13%
according to futures in China here this
morning. So certainly there is some
relief across energy markets here today.
Uh stocks as well, you are seeing most
of the large caps are doing quite well.
Cyber Con Tech is up some 2% here. Uh
and we'll watch very closely what
happens with the Hong Kong side of
things here. Let's look at the boards.
Uh there you go. We're seeing upside
about 1% for Hang Seng HS Tech. We're
back above that 5,000 level for some of
these Chinese tech shares as well.
What's really driving that has been some
of the big names like Tencent, Alibaba,
Baidu are all up some 2% here this
morning. And yeah, we are seeing all sec
Most of these sectors are in the green
here today.
Uh the currency is interesting, too. Now
we're back below 690 levels. So that
certainly is helping in terms of the
dollar moves. It seems at least the
strength that we saw is easing a bit. We
did see of course another strong fix
from the PBOC here today. So we're
keeping still some strength in that
currency. But we're coming off just a
bit here right now. Take a look at what
it comes to some of the oil names as
well. You know, they have also been
following the oil price lower here
across the region. So that certainly is
potentially the sore spot here today.
But then again, they've been having a
going on a tear here for for much of the
past week. It is a mixed picture, but
you know, you see PetroChina, China
Oilfield Services, and CNOOC all lower
here this morning. Airline stocks, I'm
guessing we'll see how that does. There
should be some recovery here just given
that they've been hit by you know, this
double whammy of oil higher oil prices
and of course the disruptions around the
Middle East. There you go. Cathay
Pacific up some 5% and some of these
Chinese airlines are all up about 3%
here this morning. Uh gold stocks
I talked about how gold really hasn't
been quite behaving as that sort of
haven here. But we have seen at least
when it comes to gold prices have at
least recovered a bit here and we are
seeing some of these gold miners also
doing quite well. Uh COTL, this is the
one to watch here today. There is still
a bit of an earnings flare to these
markets and given the fact that you
know, we can kind of move aside from the
geopolitics at least for now and focus
on some of the fundamentals. Uh full
year was a clean beat according to the
street here. We're talking about 40 plus
percent gains uh of for 2025 when it
comes to profit for CATL. So, they've
been kind of the ones that really have
been able to defy this price war among
the EV sector
for China. And it really is because of
their overseas sort of expansion plans.
You talk about energy storage. This is
one of the key kind of differentiations
on why CATL is doing quite well and BYD
heading the opposite direction, Dave.
Yeah. And of course, this time in the
next hour we'll be joined by Macquarie,
of course, to help us unpack what they
make of
the earnings coming through from CATL.
They have an interesting take on that.
But, let's let's cross that bridge when
we get there, as they say. Okay, let's
let's circle back to the top story.
There's some headlines across official
media in China as it pertains to of
course the
the war that rages in the Middle East.
You have state news outlets
portraying China as a stabilizing force.
Now, today's Global Times editorial
highlights China's governance model
saying it is injecting much-needed
stability into the world. Now, the piece
says that China's progress depends on a
peaceful
international environment, while global
peace and
development increasingly rely on China's
stability. Now, state media have been
critical in their coverage of the US and
Israeli-led war in Iran. The foreign
minister, Wang Yi, on the weekend
articulated Beijing's stance in a press
briefing on the weekend.
Seeing the Middle East engulfed in
flames, I want to say that
this is a war that should not have
happened.
Once again, China calls for an immediate
stop to military operations to avoid the
spiraling escalation of the situation
and prevent the conflict from spilling
over and spreading.
Joining us now is Chen Jang, China
policy analyst at CITIC Securities. Good
morning, sir. Thank you for joining us
today. Yeah, thank you.
>> You know, there are two components here.
There's the There's the geopolitical
angle, and there's the possible
transmission effect into the economy in
China. We talk about oil prices, we can
get to that in a moment, but you just
heard there we played out the uh the the
the sound bite from uh China's foreign
minister over the weekend. It was quite
clear what he meant. Read between the
lines. How prepared do you think is
China to weather this storm?
I would love to say uh the uh impact of
the Iran uh war on China is uh strongly
related to whether if it is really like
a uh short-term war like the Trump said
uh it's a short-term excursion. And uh
our current uh baseline scenario is
still uh limited strike uh will be uh
the most uh possible situation. So, the
United States and Israel will conduct
some airstrike, and uh the uh Iran will
fight back with some limited uh counter
uh counterpart. So, uh if that thing
really happens, I would love to say uh
the Iran war uh the impact on China will
be very limited. We can see that as an
uh amplified version of the 12th uh day
war uh in June last year. And if you
remember that impact uh was very
limited. And what we can see uh if you
see that from the uh Shanghai Composite
Index is last week the whole market only
down by around 1% point, also showing a
muting pricing of the market on the uh
Iran war.
Um it's interesting, right? You
mentioned in your notes about how
the the reason or one of the reasons
why, you know, Iran, Venezuela what was
targeted was in some ways to really kind
of uh target China's energy security
structure in terms of energy imports
from China moving forward. Do you Do you
expect that to return to normal, or or
do you think that China will have to
evolve in where they're going to get
their energy?
So Venezuela accounts for around 4% of
China's seashore importing crude oil and
Iran accounts for around 13%. So in
total they account for 17%. So they
really matters on China's
geopolitical risk and also the energy
sustainability. So I think it is an
inevitable trend for China to transmit
to the clean energy. So in the most
recent 15 5-year plan we have seen China
proposed three key target in related to
energy transmission.
Number one is related to clean energy.
That is the carbon dioxide emission per
unit of GDP. Normally we call that
carbon intensity should be reduced by
17% in the next 5 years. So every year
it will be reduced by 3.8, a pretty
aggressive target. So it going to have a
pretty strong implication on the local
government and also the manufacturing
sectors in China in using more clean
energies. So in total by 2030 the clean
energy will account for 25 of all the
energy consumption in China. So the key
target is by 2030
China's energy capacity will reach 5.8
billion ton of
standard standing coal. So it going to
be very important for the energy
transition in related to the energy
imbalance in the market.
Do you see a future whether that's
medium or perhaps even longer term that
China
you know,
China stops being a net energy importer?
In other words
to your point of them looking at
sustainable sources domestically, uh,
weaning themselves off external factors
beyond their control. Is that something
that you think we should expect from
China to to to target?
So, number one, China remain as the
number one crude oil importer in the
world, and I think this will very likely
to last for longer term. And more
importantly, we know there is an
imbalance in the supply and demand
situation in the new energy sector in
China. We have overcapacity uh, in the
uh, solar and battery uh, sector. And
uh, uh, so the key target is not trying
to reduce our energy consumption, is
trying to encourage the manufacturing
sector and the local government in using
more clean energies. So, the possible
ways are included in the so-called uh,
green electricity transition, and also
the carbon market.
So, I'm just wondering if President
Trump has
you know, in some ways has almost
declared victory by saying that you
know, they've been able to
uh,
really deteriorate when it comes to
Iran's military defenses. And and even
with Venezuela, they were able to kind
of capture the leader in a matter of
days. Does that give the US in some way
an upper hand as they approach these
talks with President Xi in just a few
weeks or so? Do you think that there's
another card that they can really give
now uh, when President Trump meets with
Xi?
So, I think uh, that will definitely
increase the bargaining chip from the
United States. But recently, we have
seen the
US court has say IEEPA is illegal in the
United States. So, in average, the US
tariff on China has been decreased by 5%
because the second of tariff is
disappear. So, I think uh, the
bargaining chip on both side both
increased, and it's going to be a very
important meeting uh, in at the end of
this month for the both sides to
negotiate.
Uh, can I just ask as well apologies if
I circle back to the economy here. The
in terms of and lots of ifs, right? How
long this war will last will obviously
determine how much how big the impact
will be on inflation. In China's case
specifically, do you think that shows up
more on wholesale prices or did it does
that get passed on
in the form of CPI consumer price
inflation?
So, I think in the history we have seen
the crude oil price has a higher impact
on the PPI rather than CPI. Especially
in the current situation, we have seen
the domestic demand in China is
relatively weak. So, we have seen the
transmission from the upstream raw
material sector. I mean the price
increase
the transmission to the downstream is
relatively weak. So, we can compare the
current situation versus 2020 and early
2021 when the Russia-Ukraine war
started. If you remember the crude oil
price increased from 50 US dollar to 120
during that period. So, the PPI
increased by 12.6%.
Well, in that period what we have seen
is the share of the profit in the
upstream sector
increased from 30% before the war to 43%
after war. So, this is a very typical
situation that during this kind of
situation the crude oil price increase
normally we will see the upstream sector
squeeze the profitability of the mid and
downstream sector. So, for this time we
did an estimation. Let's say if the
crude oil price remain at around 90-100
US dollar for right now and get back to
for example 70 in next month. So, in a
short-term situation, China's PPI will
very likely to turn positive in March
and we estimate the whole year PPI will
be close to zero and the CPI will be
around 0.7. But if unfortunately this
turn into a long-term prolonged
full-scale war and the crude oil price
to be
higher than 100 US dollar for the whole
year, our estimation is the PPI will
very likely to be 1.2% for the whole
year and CPI will very likely to reach
around 1.0.
Okay.
So you look at obviously the oil impact.
Beyond just the movement of oil prices,
what are some other signals that you're
watching out for to to signal to show
whether this conflict in Iran is is
escalating or or fading right now?
Yeah, I think there are three signals we
should follow. Number one is
currently the Israel and US Army are
mainly conduct air strike. So whether if
the United States will deploy some
ground force is number one very
important whether if this war will be
escalate.
And number two is whether if the
political situation in Iran will be
stable whether if IRGC to take over
whole all the policy decision process in
Iran. That is also a very
important say signal we should follow.
And number three is whether if the
Hormuz
Strait is strictly secure under the
current situation or Iran will have some
threat on the ships and also the
the
transportation across the Hormuz Strait.
That is another very important signal we
should follow.
All right. Jin Cheng it's great to have
you. Thank you so much. Jin Cheng a
policy analyst at CITIC Securities
joining us here this morning. Just want
to bring you your attention to CATL
shares. They are jumping here this
morning on the back of their 2025
earnings beat. So the stock is rising
close to 8 or 9 percent here right now
and the A share market is also up about
4 and 1/2%. Also, want to flag as well
what we're hearing from the Taiwanese as
well when it comes to what they're doing
in terms of securing energy supplies.
The Taiwanese are saying that now they
will further cut commodity tax on
gasoline and diesel to 50% and further
also there when it comes to same thing.
But they certainly there you are seeing
more countries react. I mean Taiwan is
one of the key and one of the biggest
oil importers in the region. So
certainly they are kind of coming up
with some contingency plans. Yeah, and
expect to see more of this as I guess
the policy makers and regulators try and
blunt the effects of yesterday's oil
price spike. Lots more ahead. This is
the China Show.
Gold is quite interesting. Very counter
trade hasn't exactly reacted the way
probably a lot of people would think
it should react.
And that's also an indication that
there's a lot of money in it. So a lot
of uncertainty through higher inflation,
lower
or basically stronger US dollar price.
That was UBS's Adrian Zuercher speaking
to us earlier about why gold really is
wasn't behaving the way that we should
in the past week or so during this Iran
war. And in fact, we did have the last
three days has been sort of an up and
down, but you know, we're we're at least
coming through with some gains here, but
really
for the most of the beginning of this
war up until now it actually did
actually fall for the most part. So
certainly a lot of questions to ask Suki
Cooper, Standard Chartered Bank's global
head of commodities research. She joins
us from New York this evening. Suki,
it's always great to have you. Um so
it's interesting, right? During this
whole Iran situation we thought gold
could be that haven and now a lot of
people are asking what haven? Why do you
think gold was behaving this way?
Initially we did see that pop higher
towards $5,400 per ounce, but then we've
actually seen gold playing the role that
it typically does within high risk
events. We've seen pressure on prices
amid profit taking. We know there was a
there was sizable positioning in the
gold market leading up to this conflict,
but also there's that need for liquidity
and that tends to pressure gold prices
lower. And we've seen this time and
again that initially a geopolitical risk
premium can drive gold prices higher,
but then when there is a need for margin
calls to be met elsewhere or when there
is pressure for cash, gold tends to be
one of the first candidates that
investors consider, especially when it's
been performing well, scaling record
highs. It's a liquid asset. So we would
argue that it's actually been fulfilling
its role within a portfolio and allowing
investors to be able to meet those cash
needs elsewhere. Having said this, we
think it could remain under pressure for
some time yet. We've seen in past
instances that gold can continue to
trend lower when it's faced with this
liquidity need.
More uh
I'm hearing you. More a function of
positioning given how crowded it was.
The
Well, where do you see positioning right
now? What is your assessment right now
of, you know, have have, you know, is
most of the froth gone in terms of just
the the crowdedness of this trade
because I guess in some ways that that
that would inform us of how
you know, gold trades shorter term.
This is a great indicator to look at. If
we look at tactical positioning, we
didn't see a significant move higher at
the start of the year. Yes, there's been
a build in gross long positions, but
it's been relatively cautious and
currently we only have the data running
up until the 3rd of March. So at that
point we can see there was continued to
be a steady build in long position, but
the
more clarity we can can see could
actually come from the physically backed
ETFs and that data that data tends to be
reported on a daily basis, and we can
already see hefty liquidations
materializing over the course of the
past week exceeding 30 tons already. If
we know that positioning overall across
the physically-backed ETFs scaled record
highs at the start of this this year in
both tonnage terms and in value terms.
But, one of the indicators we can look
at is where or how much positioning was
actually underwater when we saw gold
prices hitting record highs towards the
end of January and that very sharp
correction. At that point, we estimated
that around 60 tons was was loss-making.
We haven't seen the flushing out of all
those positions yet, so we do think that
there's a little bit more that could be
under pressure in the coming weeks. If
we start to see net redemptions closing
in on that 100 tons, we think that
positioning could be a little bit
cleaner. But, having said that, we're
looking at technical levels here to
provide that near-term support alongside
the physical market.
Okay, what what are those technical
supports?
We're trading around what? 5,100 for
gold futures right now. What do you
think that sort of support is now?
Initially around that $5,000
per ounce mark, and then beyond that
perhaps closer to 4,500
is where we tend to see more of that
50-day moving average providing stronger
support levels. But, really that
downside support tends to kick in where
the physical market is more active in
terms of buying. And, we're currently in
the midst of a season slow period for
consumption, so we're not necessarily
going to see it more of an instant price
response and when it comes to that price
elastic demand. So, really the ETF
flows, that investor appetite, is going
to be critical. And, if we look at how
long these periods of distress selling
or the need for margin calls can last,
we do need to look at indicators around
micro drivers, whether it's
around where equity markets are
performing or where the dollar is or
alternative safe havens. And that
suggests that this drawn out period
could last for up to a month.
All right. Suki, thank you so much. We
appreciate your time and we know it's
getting late there. Suki Cooper, uh out
of Standard Chartered, of course, global
head of commodities research for us on
the gold price. So I guess that just
previewed our next conversation with
Suki in about a month's time from now.
All right, coming up uh ooh, ETFs part
of the conversation today. We will ask
the Direction CEO, Douglas Yones Yones
about the strategy amid Iran war, the
flows they're seeing across their
various products. And of course, we're
talking CATL as well with Corey Capital
in the next hour. This is Bloomberg.
Right, so welcome back. You're looking
at markets right now. On my right, uh
Taiwan tech names, so high IAI
is the still loving AI if you didn't get
that
I didn't. Took me a while.
>> There we go.
Uh Korean semis are also uh on the same
boat here today given a broader rally
we're seeing across the region.
Uh that's coming up very, very shortly
on your screen. So there we go. As you
can see, double-digit gains across the
big names there in Korea. And we'll just
wrap things up here with looking at cash
markets about 25 minutes into the cash
market session. And still a rally. They
will talk more about CATL, unpack the
earnings later on as well. We're up 1.6%
on the Hang Seng index. Similar gains
when you're looking at Hang Seng tech.
Lots more ahead. Second hour of the
China show is just ahead.
>> On Iran, you called it an excursion. You
said it would be over soon. Are you
thinking this week it will be over? You
talking about days?
>> I think so. Okay, and and with respect
>> Very soon. Look,
everything they have is gone including
their leadership.
In fact, there two levels of leadership
and even actually as it turns out more
than that, but two levels of leadership
are gone.
We're also waving certain oil-related
sanctions to reduce prices. So, we have
sanctions on some countries. We're going
to
take those sanctions off till this
straightens out.
And who knows, maybe we won't have to
put them on. There'll be so much peace.
But when the time comes, the US Navy and
its partners will escort tankers through
the strait if needed.
Oh, President Trump there speaking about
the Iran war and measures to mitigate
the eco impact of elevated oil prices.
That certainly is giving a a reason for
markets to breathe a little bit of sigh
of relief here right now when it comes
to risk assets. So, stocks are being
bought up. We're seeing quite a bit of
rebound here for the rest of Asia.
Kospi's up some 6%. Hong Kong's also
about 1 and 1/2% here today, but still a
lot of questions about, you know,
obviously there's been that stackflation
concern given we've been seeing these
elevated oil prices. And really, there's
still a lot of uncertainty about what
the situation is really like in the
Strait of Hormuz. Yeah, that Laura
Davison, right? Back to that
conversation we had with her about an
hour back really put it I think as
perfectly as as one one could hope. You
know, the US is addressing the symptoms
of the war and not so much addressing
how this war actually ends in terms from
a policy perspective. But I think we
know from an oil perspective, that's
really where the markets really got the
pinch, right? So, the pullback from
about near 120 to 90 levels was enough
to create this platform upon which risk
assets are rallying currently. That is
just to say Hong Kong today and Mainland
China as well underperforming
the rest of the region coming up on your
screens very shortly because to the
downside we actually were largely
unscathed in greater China compared to
the rest of the region this time
yesterday with the likes of Samsung and
just going the complete opposite way 6%
in Korea, 3 and 1/2% in Taiwan. Nikkei's
also doing quite well 3 to 4% there.
Commodity markets massive
is an understatement the last 24 hours
or so we're below 90 now
on Brent West Texas Shanghai crude is
also down about 15%. Dollar China and
the dollar story is interesting because
we also have some data points that have
been scattered across the Asian session
today whether that's the print out of
Japan we'll get trade numbers coming out
of China at some point over the next 1
or 2 hours or so. At the moment it's
dollar weakness
that is playing out across the markets
right now. Bond markets your 10s US all
the way through to Oz and yeah there we
go a little bit higher on the 10-year
yield a reversal of yesterday's move but
Asia is really extending the rally
across the bond space from what we had
going into this Tuesday morning. Yeah,
let's bring in Lanting to our managing
editor for Asia equities and joins us
now. Lanting I think 24 hours ago we
were freaking out.
How do how what now?
Yeah, it's it's really a classic relief
rally that is playing out right now.
After some intense selling yesterday as
you guys mentioned but the mood is not
outright is gone as investors we speak
to are still very jittery about the next
headline.
For today of course Trump's move to
speak multiple times with news networks
and pressers really shows that he was
serious in getting his intention out
there that he may end the war soon and
the market moves do show that investors
are desperate for any incremental good
news
and we're hearing more investors talking
about what to buy right now when things
get sold off so much. So, Korea was
again touted as a great value buy. I
think BlackRock touted it on TV
yesterday because of its positioning in
the AI value chain and the president's
continued effort to boost corporate
governance. So, if you look also look at
the retail activity in Korea with the
massive amount of margin debt taken out
to buy stocks, we are actually not
seeing
the margin debt coming down after the
huge sell-off in the last couple of
days, which also means the retail crowd
in Korea is really holding on to their
positions, providing support for the
market.
So, LianTing, the
how pronounced is headline risk still to
the point you just made there in terms
of the people that you guys your team
speaks with and
uh you know, I'm just trying to balance
in my head how far you know, are we a
bad headline away from reversing what
we're seeing currently and or have we
moved somewhat farther away from tail
risk scenarios currently?
Yeah, I think still jittery. If you look
at US futures, it's down. I mean,
yesterday's overnight session was very
positive, but people are not, you know,
really buying more at this point, right?
They're all worried about what whether
Trump's going to change his mind again
just because, you know, he gets provoked
by any moves from Iran.
Um and today I think the market moves as
you mentioned, you know, with those
markets that were sold off more like
Korea and Taiwan, we're seeing more
gains and in in China, which was sold
off less, uh people are actually, you
know, are not super excited today, but
overall, I think uh China is quite
interesting in this
market in these market moves just
because it now is becoming a bit of a
low beta market compared with the likes
of
Korea and Taiwan. And people are
actually relatively sanguine for at
least the month of March just because
there is going to be a Xi Trump meeting.
So, there is a lot of incentive for the
government to maintain stability and
also, you know, people are looking at
onshore market to continue to outperform
the offshore market just because of the
onshore mix of stocks is more aligned
with the MPC initiatives. And plus, with
the, you know, Xi-Trump meeting coming
up, there may be more potential national
team support if we see more volatility.
So, there is basically some kind of
spotlight on China in this global
volatility right now.
Yeah, and earnings, too, right? I I take
a look at what CATL shares are doing
here right now.
Could be a symptom of what's going on
the Iran situation that, you know, this
might incentivize China to electrify
everything. So, maybe some of these
energy plays like CATL are good buy, but
the fundamentals are still looking very
good for this company.
Yeah, CATL definitely reported
surprisingly good earnings in this very
fierce environment of competition for EV
batteries. I think the company is very
well positioned because of its
foray into the energy storage space. And
that really makes it look better now
versus the likes of BYD, which is still
very much heavily invested in just the
EV space.
And yeah, I think the CATL move was
definitely outstanding in today's
market. And just because, you know,
there's not a whole lot of other
earnings going on, this is really
boosting
sentiment for Chinese stocks today as
well.
Yanching, thank you so much Lanting to
there outlining for us the market action
today. To the point Lanting just made,
right? The
shelter that this Chinese market has
provided in terms of just low or even
non or negative correlations.
Our earlier guest from City Securities
also pointed out the Shanghai comp
actually held up quite well last week.
And this chart I think underscores that
point,
exhibiting near zero correlation with
the S&P 500. Uh
just I guess in terms of where you turn
to when the storms gather as they have
of course over the horizon of of late
there.
Yep. Uh so certainly that is where the
place to maybe take a bit of shelter.
Still have a tiny show we check on how
investors are repositioning to face the
Iran crisis with Direction CEO Douglas
Yones plus Macquarie Capital on China's
EV price war of course and on the back
of those probably stunning earnings from
CATL there. Much more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
Welcome back. You're watching the China
show. Right, we are piecing together
market positioning given everything
that's taken place and where
uh
positioning is currently given where
sentiment has been taken up a notch or
two in the last few hours or so given
the comments coming through on the US
president there.
Um Direction is is one of the biggest
leverage and inverse ETF providers out
there managing get this 55 billion.
That's US dollars in assets.
Uh so it's a unique glimpse into the
popular trades out there both sides of
the Direction spectrum. Uh Douglas Yones
is here with us of course CEO of the
company. Very nice to see you. Good
morning. Good morning. Thank you for
having me. It's exciting to be here. Uh
so we're all yours. Your product lineup
tells it offers a good glimpse into many
of the the popular trades recently and
how some have blown up, some have sort
of reversed. What's your take on where
you've seen flows recently? Yeah, I mean
you're you're spot on. You know, if if
you're not as familiar with Direction
lineup of ETFs, we we focus on
short-term trading, people who are
interested in markets, people who are
focused on on your show watching it like
I do.
Uh we're we're into the markets and this
is Direction weather. I mean the last
couple of days has been nothing but
exciting. I don't I don't know the right
word to use for it, but when you have,
you know, 8% moves in the KOSPI index, I
mean, these are these are historically
not seen, but if you're an active
trader, I mean, these are great markets
for you. You can really trade the
headlines right now. It's worked out
great. You're seeing it in the
performance of most of our ETFs, and as
you said, you know, the the biggest
hottest topics, so talking about
precious metals, gold, uh oil, the moves
in oil, and uh the the the moves in gold
miners, of course, semiconductors, the
Mag 7, and Korea. I mean, these have
been the the topics that are that are
hitting the the headlines, and it's
what's moving the markets. That's what's
moving the Direction ETFs. Yeah, you you
can see everything day-to-day, so I'm
just wondering in terms of today, maybe
overnight, what have you seen in terms
of changes? Yeah, one of the interesting
things that had happened with uh with
our investors is they have been over the
last 2 years, especially, buying the
dip, and it's worked really well. If you
go back over the last 10 years, you've
never had a better 12 months than last
year of every time the market was down
by about 1% in the US, the next day's
reversal was the best returns we've seen
in a decade, and that's holding up this
year. We're still seeing it, and so even
though there's some sectors that have
been somewhat out of favor, every time
we see days like we just saw yesterday
into the overnight hours, if you bought
the dip, you've done phenomenal, and and
you you're seeing it even this morning,
right? KOSPI, I think, is up 8%, so the
triple levered uh KORU is our ETF that's
triple levered for Korea. It's doing
phenomenal, so if you really are an
active trader, and and you're really
stepping into the market, you have
conviction over a short period of time.
So, yesterday was one of very large cash
flow for us. We saw a lot of money move
into our ETFs. We'll probably now in the
uh in our overnight markets into the US
market, we'll see some of the
redemptions as people people take
profits. Mhm.
Talk to us about the Korea story,
because triple levered product on a
market that's going up 50% year-to-date.
>> That just must be just The compounding
effect of all that.
>> The compounding effect is real. Yeah.
Yeah, it can work in your favor like it
has in Korea. I mean, if you look at I
think KORU is one of if not the best
performing ETFs out there globally for
the last 12 months. Depending on when
you when you own it, you're probably up
anywhere between 800 or 1,000%.
>> Yeah. That's not always going to be the
case. It could go the other way, too.
But, when you have the trend that we've
seen where you just sort of keep
trending up without a lot of volatility
to the downside, that tends to drive
long-term performance. That's why
semiconductor triple leveraged
semiconductor has done extremely well.
Yeah, the last 30 days, 45 days, they
haven't done really well. But, the
reality is the previous 12 months, the
trend has just been in one direction.
Yeah. No, I'm I'm curious Sorry,
interrupt. I'm just curious on a product
like Korea, for example, do you have
data how long do people actually hold
that? It's interesting. So, what the
data shows people will sell what we can
see is people are doing what they're
supposed to do. They're in it for a
trend, and as soon as the trend starts
to falter, we'll see liquidations. So,
>> Okay. we actually saw, right, the the
trade has sort of come away over the
last month. We saw a lot of
liquidations. But, then now as it's
reversed again, we're seeing a lot of
creations.
>> Right. And so, it's what we want to see.
We want people who if Well, first of
all, if you don't understand leverage,
please don't use the ETFs. Come learn at
our education center at direction.com.
It's free. You can learn.
>> It's not fun that way, though. I'm
kidding. I'm kidding.
>> going to ask you cuz, you know, some
critics have have called these leveraged
ETFs like gambling tools for day
traders, right? How do you respond to
that sort of characterization? Which,
you know, look, lob in the complaints
because we want to hear them. It helps
us make sure we define our strategies.
So, if people are concerned, that means
they're not educated. It means they need
to come in. They're they're fantastic
tools for traders. They need to be the
type of people who are watching your
show daily. If they're set it, forget
it, they're not like the Emilys of the
world that are watching real time, then
then fine. Th- this isn't for them. They
should just go into low-cost passive
vehicles. If you're do- if you're tuned
in, they're watching you every day,
you're These are the traders. These are
the people we're focused on, and they're
the people that are going to be trading.
So, they we don't find them as gambling
tools. Gambling doesn't have an economic
interest, right? Gambling is I'm betting
on this thing to happen, it didn't
happen, I gained or I lost money. That's
not what this is. Yes, you can you can
gain money and lose money quickly, but
for those that are really invested in
markets, want to trade the headlines,
that's what they're built for. They're
built for short-term trading. The issue
is the last 12 to 18 months,
I mean, just think ever since Trump
stepped into office, we've got so much
volatility in the markets, and it's
headline driven. It's very rarely
fundamentally driven. You'll just see
these headline statements that will move
the markets, and traders can take really
good opportunities to step in and use
some leverage to really enhance their
returns. Mhm. What about oil? What are
you seeing there? It's been fascinating.
I mean, did you expect yesterday at 120
we'd be down in the 80s?
>> Certainly not.
>> Oh my goodness, right? So, again, that's
a perfect example. If you're not capable
or ready for that kind of move, then
don't step into leverage. Our
expectation though is we'll probably
reverse to the mean again. I mean,
what's really changed overnight? A
statement? The war is almost over? Has
the strait opened? Are we seeing
shipping containers being delivered? Are
we seeing all that break up? And let you
tell me, I'll be watching all day, but
probably not. So, my guess is we'll
start to see a reversion back up again,
and then what will happen? We'll see the
next news headline that will either
drive it higher or lower. So, if you're
plugged in and you're watching, you can
make those trades. If you're not, you
probably want to stay away from leverage
in the oil oil space right now. What
what we did see when it came to this the
headlines was that that the whole AI
trade just got washed out in some ways.
I mean, when you look at Mag 7, but the
US side was still emerging as almost a
winner compared to this part of the
world. Is that how you saw it in terms
of where direction was was going to?
>> it's a really interesting if we take a
step back and we say, where do we think
we'll be in 3 years, 5 years, 10 years?
Do we really believe we're going to use
less data? We think we're going to use
less semiconductors in our life? We
think we're going to use less AI? Of
course, the answer is no to all of those
things. We know we're heavily invested.
So, to me, if you're a long-term
investor, you're not necessarily trading
day-to-day, these are great
opportunities to buy into the Mag 7, the
AI section of the market. It's a perfect
opportunity. You're not going to be
upset 3 years from now or 5 years from
now what day you bought. But, if you're
a short-term trader, you know, maybe a
piece of your portfolio, you like to
trade the headlines, well, the new, you
know, get trading around earnings has
been a fantastic way to do it. Trading
around expectations has been a fantastic
way to do it. You get these little blip
headlines about oh, AI is Do we really
think it's going to end? Right? Do we
But, if you look at the earning cycle as
a long-term investor, it's been the best
earning cycle ever in that sector, ever.
And so, for a company to, you know,
we've seen it across the Mag 7, almost
every single one of them, maybe Apple is
the exception,
so, so, you know, their stocks move 6,
8% to the downside after an earnings.
Why? Because they're spending more in
one of the hottest growing areas of the
world. The Those are perfect buying
opportunities for a long-term investor.
Yeah, you know, just the example you
were talking about this on behind the
scenes yesterday. Like a market like
Korea, AI, right? So, Samsung is
actually cheaper now than it was before
the 50% rally because of the earning
story. I want to ask you about the
business now because you have key
markets, priorities.
What are your strategies to remain
popular, whether that's pricing or new
thematics? Yeah, I mean, we're always
working on new, new ETFs that are that
are focused on the active trader. We
always like to remind people we do have
a few products like right now, the
market for equal weight strategies is
actually quite strong. We have a QQQ
equal weight, of course, that's
interesting for long-term holders, but
short-term, most of the products you'll
see coming down the road are
direction-like vehicles. We started to
launch the Titan series. We basically
took sectors. We narrowed down to the
top five names, and we lever them up
equal weighted.
You'll see us start to step into the
exciting parts of the market. People are
interested in crypto. Crypto is opening
up across Asia. Some of the regulators
are starting to allow it. So, we're
stepping into that space. We continue to
focus on single names. People like
trading single stocks. The news is out
there. It's easier to find what's going
on with any particular company. So, we
look for the types of vehicles that uh
people trade. So, you'll start to see us
continue to launch the single stock
lineup. We lean in where we're what
we're good at. And and that's what we're
we're used to building tools for
traders. In terms of challenges for the
business, what what do you see as that
in the near and medium term? Is it is it
regulations? Given the SEC has
scrutinized some of these sort of
leveraged uh products here that are too
complex for the retail side? Is it about
market conditions or competition? What
what do you think is the near-term risk?
>> the regulatory environment's actually
quite strong. Regulators are adopting
education. We're big focus on education.
I think a great example was Korea at the
end of last year. Korea said that as a
regulator, they said, "If you're a
Korean investor and you want to buy
leverage and you've never done it
before, you have to watch an educational
video to get approved." We love that. We
loved it so much we actually had Heejung
from our team here in Hong Kong join and
help support that message. So, we we
we're actually seeing regulatory, I'll
say, tailwinds. Regulators are are
allowing people to trade what they want
to trade. So, our focus is really on
education. What I think could be a
backdrop that that what's out there
that's concerning, I think some of the
gambling markets can be concerning,
right? The the prediction markets
>> markets of the world.
>> Right? I mean, those are places where
they're what we would call they're
binary events, right? For a trader, you
know that term. If you're a non-trader,
it means it's a zero-sum. You either win
or lose. So, let's just think about if I
if I look at the markets today and say,
"Oh boy, oil. It's really volatile. I
step in here." Well, if I'm wrong and it
moves down 20-30%, I've lost 20-30%. I
haven't lost 100%. But, if I do a poly
market and I bet on
uh somebody winning or losing an
election or something like that, you go
to zero if you're on the wrong side.
That's concerning. So, we want to make
sure people recognize that that's
gambling. Mhm. Leverage trading is
investing. There's a big difference in
there. And so, you know, that if I was
going to put an item out there that's I
think is is important, I'd probably
would step into that into that realm. It
it might be clear to players like
yourself. Regulators though might see
those two things as somewhat similar,
uh, and they tend to be more
conservative. I'm wondering how how how
how you view that risk.
>> And I and I think that's a good point.
And as you look at the market, so, uh,
Nasdaq market as an example,
they basically said in an announcement,
"We're bringing back binary options."
That's what binary options are. You can
you you'll go to zero overnight. So,
those are the things that we focus on
where we we want to make sure we're
having that topic of conversation with
an investor to say, "Just be you know,
take a few minutes, learn about the
investment that you're you're
considering." Education is so important.
It's a good example, because if you've
got a binary option, you could go to
zero. Whereas, if you come in, get
educated, you understand, uh, if Look,
if you're a long-term investor, that's
great, stay with that. But, if you love
the markets and you're and you're dialed
in, I mean, these are this is direction
weather. When you have 8 10% moves and
you can you can trade on the headlines,
uh, it's a perfect timing. Douglas, it's
good to have you. Douglas Yones there,
CEO of Direction, joining us here in our
Hong Kong studios. And of course, we're
going to be diving deeper into Asia's
ETF space in a new segment that is
starting this week. We explore how funds
are reshaping the investment landscape,
featuring interviews with top market
players and newsmakers. Catch ETF IQ
Asia every Friday, right here on The
China Show. This is Bloomberg.
Right, welcome back. Let's talk about
the Pentagon, but under a different
story lights. Uh, Anthropic, remember
that angle?
Well, the company is now suing the US
Defense Department for declaring that
the company poses a national supply
chain risk.
The Pentagon formally notified the
company of its determination of course
last week. Bell has the details for us
here at set and this move of course from
the company was largely expected. Yeah,
this is exactly what they said they were
going to be doing if if indeed they were
declared a national security risk. So,
it is interesting of course when you
read through that lawsuit it's more than
50 pages long but it just sort of spells
out exactly why this has happened and
for Anthropic it's saying that it's
modus operandi is really about providing
positive outcomes for humanity and this
whole argument boils down to how its
technology is being used and they're
just saying it's not ready
to be used and they don't want it to be
used for for mass surveillance and also
further integrated into autonomous
weapon systems. So, yes, this is this is
no surprise that Anthropic has pursued
this and as we were saying last week
there actually is a legal basis here
because the section of law that the
Pentagon is relying on
essentially regulates uh foreign
businesses not ones that have been
headquartered or established in in the
US as well. So, that is sort of the
legal grounds I guess they'll be
pursuing in this case. It is a a $200
million contract so it's not the be and
end all for Anthropic but what it does
mean this national security risk is that
essentially Anthropic could also be
prevented from working with other
businesses that contract into the US
defense including Lockheed Martin for
instance and that is where I guess a lot
of the issue lies as well. Yeah, and
what what's been the response from the
government and from Big Tech? Yeah, this
is actually interesting just in the last
few hours we had an interview with a top
Pentagon official. His name's Emil
Michael and he was formerly at Uber
actually but now he's he's overseeing
the acceleration of AI adoption at the
Pentagon. His actual title is the Under
Secretary of Defense of Research and
Engineering and he's saying that there's
really little chance of resuming
negotiations with Anthropic. This has
been very feisty, of course, on social
media. A lot of it has played out on
Truth Social, and President Trump has
been very vocal about not wanting to be
directed to by what he considers a woke
left-wing business about how they can
actually use their technologies. But it
is, of course, something that's going to
be playing out over several months
because
essentially now the Pentagon has 6
months to extricate itself and remove
Anthropic's technology from its systems.
As we've been discussing, it is you
being used actively on the front lines
right now in Iran.
All right, Val, thank you with that
update when it comes to Anthropic. Of
course, we'll get your market check
coming up. We've been watching, of
course, when it comes to Asia Airlines,
a bit of relief there given that oil
prices have stabilized at least around
that $90 level here this morning. This
is Bloomberg.
It's 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese
markets are going to a lunch break in
just a moment. And yes, as we've been
talking about, there's a massive relief
across the risk assets here today. You
are seeing the Nikkei 225 up some 3%
here. Topix is up close to 3% as well.
So certainly,
you know, all the tail risk that we were
worried about, $100 oil and the like,
those at least have eased a bit here in
the Asia session. Although we talked
about US futures are still sort of in
the red territory there. So perhaps we
might not see the same kind of
follow-through the next day in Wall
Street. But 157 levels for for
dollar-yen. We stabilized a bit there.
Yields are ticking lower. So we are
seeing that route come off just a little
bit when it comes to fixed income. And
we take a look at the rest of Asia.
Yeah, we are sitting a lot better than
maybe 24 hours ago when we were dealing
with, wow, what what is the prospect of
a $120 oil actually mean
for the psyche of investors, economies,
policy makers, market participants and
the like. So, certainly, you know,
things have come we come off that and
really we are seeing Asia-Pacific up
some 3%. The dollar is also the strength
that we've seen has come off a bit here
as well, Dave. Yeah,
and what was somewhat surprising, but I
guess the the storm clouds were too
intense the last few days was that EVs
didn't really come up as a theme.
Because certainly high high oil price
immediately then goes to why not just go
harder into EVs. Anyway, it's showing up
today in the form of course batteries
and CATL was out with earnings. It's
quite a move we're seeing the shares
today.
We're also looking at of course and just
a reminder that we are in earning
season. It's also a reminder that we are
still waiting for some numbers and data
coming through which could come out
anytime now. I'm talking about Chinese
trade data, but we can set that aside
for now. Look at CATL specifically.
Minmin Low, our China correspondent, is
in Beijing for us unpacking the earnings
for us. So so yeah, Minmin, strong
profits last year.
That's right. A 42% gain in profits on
year in 2025 really beating expectations
there and really sort of leaving behind
its rival BYD in the dust because BYD
has been heavily focused on its EV
segment and it is expected to see its
profits being hammered. It's reporting
earnings later this month, expected to
see the worst decline in its quality
quarterly sales in 5 years. But here you
can see some of the metrics from CATL.
Its overseas expansion push is bringing
in about 18% in revenue. The energy
storage sector 9%
gain in profits, I should say, rather
than revenue. So
sorry,
9% gain in revenue. So these are the two
main drivers. It's overseas push. CATL
has been heavily doubling down on its
licensing regime so that it can monetize
its R&D without
the risk of owning physical assets. So,
that is one of the factors helping, but
of course it has that multi-billion
dollar plant in Hungary. That's a test
of whether or not CATL is able to rein
in labor costs and meet local
regulations there, but CATL has also
been uh number one, diversifying into
energy storage, and number two, pushing
new technology to drive demand. So, it's
been rolling out the second generation
of its lithium-ion batteries. The first
mass-produced cars using lithium-ion
batteries will enter the market in
mid-2026. And of course, lithium-ion
batteries are cheaper, sorry, sodium-ion
batteries are cheaper than cheaper than
lithium-ion, and they are more
weather-resistant as well. So, that's
another edge that CATL has over other EV
makers out there.
Yeah, and they've been able to kind of
differentiate in the face of this pretty
brutal price war in China. A Neo is set
to report earnings today. Maymin, what
are we watching out for?
Neo expected to see a pretty strong
earnings because it's expected to see
its fourth quarter turn
its operating profit to a positive
territory for the first time.
The early sort of preliminary vehicle
delivery numbers show that they have 40
over percent increase in vehicle sales
in the fourth quarter. That's really
boosted by the premium ES8 model, and
that model made up a third of their
sales. So, that helps to lift their
average selling price, helps to lift
their margins as well, which
Bloomberg Intelligence says expected to
hit above management's guidance of 18%.
But, the outlook still remains quite
challenged because overall we are seeing
cooling demand for EVs in China because
of the government pulling back some of
that consumer subsidies and tax rebates.
So, a lot will hinge upon the company's
ability to continue to rein in costs,
especially when we are seeing inflation
when it comes to metals, and
particularly memory chips as well
because of the global shortage.
Okay. Uh Mem thanks for that sum up here
on what to expect in terms of the EV
space here. China correspondent Mem Lo
joining us out of Beijing. Uh our next
guest has an outperform rating when it
comes to CATL here with a price target
of 400 yen for its A shares, 560 for the
Hong Kong H cap. Of course, the H shares
won. Uh Macquarie Capital's head of
China Equity Strategy Eugene Shal joins
us now. Um yeah, I mean, there there
obviously has been a lot of speculation
that, you know, with this Iran
situation, you got to look at some of
these kind of renewable energy players
like CATL, and they're obviously going
to benefit. But we're actually seeing
the fundamentals back that story, too.
That's exactly right. I think when we
think about what's going on globally, it
makes it tricky right now. Everyone's
trying to figure out what's the best
place to hide like in this sort of
situation, just given this extreme
volatility. But I think what CATL
essentially proved in the results is
that there is a structural growth story
in batteries, and they're leading that.
I think that's one of the reasons why
we've seen the shares perform so well so
far this morning. So,
on the earnings front specifically, so
fundamentals, what did you like, and
what was kind of like short short in
terms of your expectations? I think the
key thing really comes down to their
ability to maintain their profitability
in a pretty tough market. You know, when
you look at the breakdown of their
actual battery deliveries, that came out
ahead of Bloomberg consensus, it came
out ahead of our numbers. I think what
we really saw was that mix, and a lot of
that actually was still driven by EVs.
You know, I think ESS has been a very
hot story this year, but EVs actually
continues to be a strong driver for this
company, and that probably came ahead of
investor expectations. And I think
that's one of the reasons people got
excited a bit more today on on on CATL.
So, when it comes to higher material,
higher lithium costs, should I should I
not worry so much about that anymore? It
still matters. Of course, it still
matters. I think the company was very
careful to mention how they're looking
at their contracts. They've been trying
to managing how they manage their
customer relationships, because this is
not the first time we've seen lithium
prices spike. You know, back in 2021, we
saw this massive rally in lithium. And I
think that really took caught a lot of
battery makers off guard. I think this
time around they're better prepared.
They have a lot of these price linked
mechanisms that help them kind of ease
and smooth out the price impacts. I
think that's one of the reasons why
they're not going to see a major squeeze
at least in the near term because of
these raw material impacts. Uh talk to
us about the moat of this company
specifically on the the the aspect of
sort of technological breakthroughs and
you know, whether or not that could get
dated very quickly or not.
The way I think about it is I mean CATL
clearly is a leader in the battery space
globally. I don't think there's a doubt
about that. But it isn't just that. I
think their business strategy is really
about achieving a sustainable tech edge.
So it's not just chasing the hot thing
cuz obviously today everyone always
talks about solid-state batteries. I've
looked at this sector for a long time.
We've talked about solid-state batteries
for maybe more than a decade now. So
it's always one of those things of like
over-promised, under-deliver. But CATL
when it comes to something new like
that, they don't sit there for
over-promise. They take a very measured
stance. But they're not going to come
out with it like their sodium battery
until they really know it's commercially
ready. And I think that's the
difference. These guys are very focused
on commercialization and technology.
Uh you mentioned about energy storage. I
mean this is sort of the hot topic as
you mentioned.
I think we're up about 29% year on year.
What what do you think is the growth
trajectory around ESS going to be?
It's a huge debate right now. I think
there's a lot of volatility in what
people think the core driver of ESS is.
I think the basic understanding of ESS
is that it's sort of this AI proxy
story. Data center, ESS, it's all linked
power demand. And that was sort of the
initial hype cycle.
But actually I think what happened over
the last 3 to 6 months was actually
slightly different. On the Q3 call they
actually mentioned some of the policy
changes in China where they effectively
changed the tariff system for wind and
solar and that allowed some of these ESS
projects in China to become very
profitable. And that drove a lot of
domestic demand not because of AI but
really just because of the way they
change the the power system. So, there's
a lot of different drivers, but overall
it's positive and I think that that will
continue to grow in the next couple
years. Can I bring in BYD here?
Your view on the company and the stock
from the prism of BYD and from the prism
of competition with CATL. It could be
separate questions actually. It is very
separate. I'll I'll put it this way. We
do have an outperform rating on BYD. A
lot of that is really predicated on
their overseas growth story, which has
remained very strong. And that's an EV
story. That is an EV story. That is And
I would argue that part of this sort of
oil reversal trade that we're seeing is
because people expect maybe if oil
prices are spiking and they sustain
there, that could drive overseas EV
sales, which would be beneficial for
BYD. However, as I think many people are
aware, the Chinese market right now is
very soft, especially in the mass
market. And I think that's to your
second question, David, that difference
between BYD and CATL. One thing CATL was
very clear on on their earnings was that
they actually have a really high market
share in premium vehicles in China. I
think they mentioned 60% of premium
models in China use CATL batteries. So,
this shows that they're a bit better
insulated in these sort of mass market
down cycles, whereas BYD is very exposed
to mass market and I think that's why
there's been this dichotomy in terms of
the share performance.
And when it comes to the EV sector
domestically, I mean I think they were
just the first ones to cut prices once
again and it kind of triggered another
sort of
a round of price wars.
What's the outlook for for this year
domestically then? Are we likely to see
this price war ease in any way? I
actually think that this is probably the
end of the Chinese price war. I think
last year there was a pretty concerted
effort through the anti-involution to
push a lot of the pricing to stabilize.
We've actually started seeing some
like-for-like pricing increases in
China. So, I think the most obvious
example is probably the refresh of the
Xiaomi car. So, Xiaomi has a very
popular sedan. The new version is
actually more expensive than the old
version. I think Zeekr is also trying to
push something like that as well. So,
what we're seeing effectively is that
and part of this is raw materials like
we we spoke earlier, but overall I think
that the price cut kind of compete to
the death moment in China I would argue
is over at this point.
Okay. Um
what do we need to watch to get more
evidence to see more evidence whether or
not that is
because for the longest time the
guidance was self-police.
And then now they're self-pricing and
obviously that we don't know still,
right? Whether that's a reflection of
cost pressures going up or whether or
not that's a reflection of a healthier
mar- healthier consumer market.
I think it's both. I think the healthier
consumer market part was what the
government was really pushing uh last
year. And that took a while to sort of
filter through to the market, but I
think we've sort of reached that point
where it's reached a steady state. But
now we have the the the the input cost
uh uh
uh impacts right now. So, that is
lithium battery prices. People mention
memory as well. I think it was
automotive memory chips the cost is up
like 300%. It's it's incredibly sharp.
Um so, from that perspective there is a
degree of cost pass-through, uh but I do
think there's also a degree of
structural change.
Um
it's interesting in your notes you
mentioned the thesis around your perform
for BYD is at the new stage of
development here moving from a domestic
champion to a global powerhouse. They
just launched this new blade battery the
second generation of this and you can
charge in 9 minutes.
Um how does it stack up? I mean do you
think it can actually catch up with what
CATL is doing? It It's a great point
because when they came out with this new
blade battery and we made such a strong
push on this fast charging capability,
the first thing I thought was really
is this meant to sort of combat this
whole battery swap thing? Because Nio's
made a big push in battery swap. CATL
recently has made a big push in its
battery swap, but BYD is effectively
saying no, you don't need battery swap.
If you can charge in 5 9 minutes, what's
the point? You might as well just keep
your battery in your car. So, for me
it's sort of these two divergent paths
on how do we solve the same problem,
which is how do we match that petrol
style fueling station experience. We
just go in, come out within 5-10
minutes. And that's why I feel like
these guys do diverge. We'll see what
wins in the end. It's totally it is. And
you know, for people trying to figure
out
Yeah, BYD for example, what what is that
stock? Is that an EV? Is it a battery
maker? And you know, you mentioned
Xiaomi, what is that? Is that a hardware
maker or is it an EV? Like what multiple
do we need to attach to those sort of
very fluid companies?
>> Yeah. Yeah, I I I completely agree. And
and this is not specific to EV sector. I
feel like so many companies in China are
doing everything. Xiaomi is a great
example of that. And BYD is no
exception. Um I would say that BYD
historically has always operated sort of
as an agglomerate anyways. So the
electronics business obviously is
separately listed. That's consolidated.
The battery business is effectively its
own standalone unit. Previously, a
couple of years ago, they tried to spin
off their semis business. So there's
already different businesses within BYD
group. But at this moment, I would say
that investors still look at it as an
auto stock at the moment. But doesn't
mean that down the road that wouldn't
change. Hm. Xiaomi?
Just very briefly.
Uh I think that Xiaomi right now, you
know, the issue for me is still what we
discussed earlier about memory prices on
the smartphone side, less than the EV
side. All right. Fantastic. Eugene, uh
we could be here all day. I think we
didn't even get to talk about the
broader markets.
Let's do this again, sir. Thank you so
much for taking the time to come in.
Eugene Zhao there, uh Macquarie
Capital's head of China equity strategy.
Right, uh just ahead here on shows,
exports, China's exports are surging,
but factory workers are being left
behind, especially given of course this
massive theme of this robotics boom
accelerating.
Are the robots really taking over?
Question mark.
>> Right, uh welcome back. We're still
waiting on watch still for these numbers
to come through. Estimates on your
screens, these are trade numbers of
course for both months. At some point
we'll get them of course dropping. Um
here's a look of course at the
estimates. We're looking at exports here
plus 72. Imports, relatively speaking,
plus seven works out to 176
billion US dollars there.
Yep, so certainly watching out for it
whether this sort of export machine can
continue, right? Uh in in the face of
what's been a very volatile uh 2026 uh
to say the least. Uh China of course has
been that export giant and may be an
export giant, but despite that massive
trade surplus, its factory workers are
increasingly being left behind. And the
trend towards AI robotics is set to make
things worse. Let's bring in Colin
Murphy. He's our China economy and
government reporter. He's with us now
with a a very fantastic piece kind of
laying out uh really what could happen
to the labor market if we continue on
this sort of high manufacturing AI sort
of wave. Uh China has been posing record
exports as you're saying, yet your
reporting shows that export growth is
translating into jobs not really in the
way that it used to. Why is that?
Right. So as you said, there's this big
sort of contradiction. On the one hand
we have uh last year 1.2 trillion dollar
trade surplus on China's uh behalf. And
you know, you would imagine uh that that
would trickle down to the workers, that
they would have benefits, that their
standard of living would be increasing.
Um but we discovered when we went on our
reporting trip to uh Guangdong province
uh a couple of weeks back that that's
not actually the case. And there are
many many reasons, including automation,
which we can get to in a bit. Uh but one
of the things that we uh identified in
our research was that obviously as China
uh is now sort of moving up the value
chain when it comes to exports, more
value add, a lot of the exports are
coming in areas like chips or cars,
and these are industries that do not
create basically as much jobs as might
have been the case
in the past when we were looking at more
traditional
industries where where labor was was was
really a major force in driving those
exports.
So, that's basically the the one of the
core contradictions that we we we
unveiled during the reporting trip to
the south.
Up, and then I guess risking asking the
obvious, why why specifically the
Guangdong province?
Yeah, well,
you know, obviously it is the sort of
traditional sort of powerhouse of
China's factory economy.
As an exporting entity, if it was like
its own country, for example, it would
be
I think top six globally. So, it
definitely is right there front and
center when it comes to exports. But at
the same time, it's also been
underperforming the national growth rate
GDP growth rate for the past 4 years.
So, there's obviously it gives us a lot
of material to work with and and sort of
explore how Guangdong can be an example
or a sort of a a petri dish for the
country at large looking at this gap
between the export surge and then the
reality on the ground amongst workers.
Another some aspects about Guangdong
that I think are worth mentioning, of
course, is that the the reliance of the
property sector for the economy is is
particularly strong. And of course,
property has been,
you know, declining as a sector in China
for the recent years. So, there's that
impact as well.
You you when it comes to property, it's
not just the confidence amongst
consumers, but in the case of Guangdong
specifically, it also is a big producer
of construction materials. So, we went,
for example, to a ceramics market, and
we were looking around there, and it was
basically desolate. There were very,
very few customers.
Uh you know, all of the shops or many of
the shops were shuttered.
Uh nearby businesses that would have
served customers like hotels and
restaurants were also um closed or uh
very empty. So, I think that's another
aspect of Guangdong that's it's quite
particularly interesting, the connection
to the property sector, but also other
traditional industries such as apparel.
So, obviously, uh it's uh the home of
many factories and workshops that
provides uh material and goods to um
consumer brands like Shein and so on and
so forth. So, I think again, these are
some of the reasons why Guangdong
represents a good choice.
Yeah. And some of the people that you
spoke to there, I mean, they said
they're just there to earn enough to eat
and pay rent. I mean, one of them said
they they make less than 100 RMB, that's
about 14 US dollars a day uh in the past
few years. So, that certainly does show
what they've been going through. Uh
Column, tell them more about what How
does involution
automation, even the gig economy, how
how do you think that sort of plays into
all of this, too?
So, right, as I mentioned at the top,
you know, the changing nature of the
exports is only really one element of
this, and there are many, many uh
different elements. So, involution, uh
as we know, is this sort of
uh cutthroat competition that really
squeezes profit margins for many uh
domestic companies here in China.
Obviously, that trickles down also to
the workers. It means that their
companies are are pairing back on
salaries or being more frugal in terms
of of hiring.
Uh automation, of course, China has been
front and foremost of embracing this. I
think there are more industrial robots
in China than in any other countries in
the world, any other country in the
world. And that also has an impact on
employment in so far as that now either
fewer workers are required or or none at
all. So this is these are two other
factors at play.
And then we're seeing the the growth of
the gig economy. I think it's something
like 40% of urban
urban employment is now accounted by the
gig economy.
This has two aspects that are worth
noting. One of course is that such jobs
typically don't come with benefits and
also those those particular sectors are
quite prone to further
sort of demise by automation going
forward. So think about ride-hailing
cabs for example.
A lot of those drivers who would have
come from other industries
will could one day sooner or later lose
their jobs to say driverless taxis.
A A column just quickly, we know this is
a policy priority automation and
robotics. What could be or what should
be or what is the policy offset to sort
of blunt the blow to the labor market
here?
Well, I think we're now in the MPC
session obviously. So I mean lawmakers
will be looking at how this sort of
drive for new technologies and how to
push the economy based on new
technologies while being all very good
and well on one hand does have the the
the fact that you know, are we replacing
jobs quickly enough?
And I think that has been has to be one
area where the policy makers need to
look more closely. One of the things
that struck me talking to the people on
the street and when during our reporting
was that many of them felt like
completely
hopeless or helpless. They They They
didn't know how to
get new skills or or reposition
themselves in the marketplace. So I
think the government can do more to help
people figure out their future path.
Callum, thank you so much. Callum
Murphy, you can check out his piece on
the Bloomberg Terminal. Fantastic there.
This
is the China show.
Off highs but still higher for the day.
The risk rally continues in the
Asia-Pacific. Lots of coming up. We'll
see if India opens up along the same
lines as well. Also coming up here. Uh
more on this Bloomberg scoop uh that
Apple now makes about a quarter of its
iPhones in India after this China pivot.
Read about that scoop next.
The India open is coming up next. Let's
see if the rally continues. That's it
from us here on the China show. We will
see you all tomorrow.